# Protein Solvation Scenario

This scenario models the dynamics of a protein solvated in water inside a cubic box. The system is modelled with the motion equations for each individual atoms according to the prescription of a molecular force field approximation.

To initialize the scenario, the user can define the following parameters:
- Protein .pdb file: PDB file containing the the protein to simulate;
- Temperature of the system in K.

Now, the user is prepared to simulate protein dynamics. Please note that the scenario currently supports only PDB files as input. Those PDB files can be [structures generated by the AlphaFold2 model](https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk) or [structures from the RCSB database](https://www.rcsb.org). Before simulation, files undergo automatic pre-processing in our machines to strip away all non-protein components of the system, such as ligands, non-standard residues, or water molecules, leaving only the protein.

This scenario only supports the GROMACs simulator.

The user can further define the following simulation parameters:
- simulation_time_ns: The simulation time, in nanoseconds. Default value is 10.
- output_timestep_ps: The time interval between recorded snapshots of the atom's positions in the trajectory output file, in picoseconds. Default value is 1.
- integrator: The integrator to use for the simulation.
    Options:
                - "md" ([Molecular Dynamics](https://manual.gromacs.org/documentation/2019/reference-manual/algorithms/molecular-dynamics.html)): Accurate leap-frog algorithm for
                integrating Newton's equations of motion.
                - "sd" ([Steepest Descent](https://manual.gromacs.org/current/reference-manual/algorithms/energy-minimization.html)): Stochastic dynamics integrator with
                leap-frog scheme.
                - "bd" ([Brownian Dynamics](https://manual.gromacs.org/documentation/2021.2/reference-manual/algorithms/brownian-dynamics.html)): Euler integrator for Brownian or
                position Langevin dynamics.
    Default value if "md".
- n_steps_min: Number of steps for energy minimization. Default value is 5000.

Moreover, the hardware and interaction are configured with the usual general parameters - `machine_group`, `run_async`, `n_cores`.
 Launching a simulation returns a task object, which can be used to verify the status of the simulation, get the simulation outputs and access post-processing tools. See more in [Tasks](inductiva/README.md).

### Example

```python
 import inductiva

 # Initialize the scenario
 scenario = inductiva.molecules.scenarios.ProteinSolvation(
     protein_pdb = "alanine.pdb"
     temperature = 300)

 # Run a simulation
 task = scenario.simulate(simulation_time_ns = 20)

 # Get the simulation output on your local machine.
 output = task.get_output()
 ```
